CV

Jing Hua Zhao is an investigator scientist working on statistical and computational genetics. He 
obtained his bachelor (medicine) and master (medical statistics) degrees from Shandong and 
Shanghai medical universities in China, and PhD (genetics) from King's College London. He was a 
research associate at the Centre for Health Statistics Information within the Ministry of Health 
of China, a visiting Scientist at Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, a research associate at Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London and a statistician 
at Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London in the Whitehall II 
study. 

URL: http://www.mrc-epid.cam.ac.uk/~jinghua.zhao



INTEGRATED ANALYSIS OF GENETIC DATA


SYNOPSIS

The genome projects in human and other species have made genetic data widely available and pose 
tremendous challenges for statistical analysis. The efforts to tailor standalone programs for 
particular data are often inconceivable, especially when both a large number of markers and 
covariates are involved. Not only are end-users required to have detailed knowledge of these 
programs, but separate data management and graphics are often necessary. The ability to integrate 
Internet functionality within the data analytic system is also essential, given data on some 
international projects are available from the Internet.

Here I give a brief overview of several software systems recently developed and engaged in 
analysis of genetic data, in particular the R system (http://www.r-project.org). I illustrate 
aspects discussed by many authors, including data management, graphics, statistical analysis, 
parsing capability, cross-platform, internet connectivity, and use of established and developing 
mathematical and statistical functions implemented in other languages such as C/C++/Fortran and 
Perl. The problem of haplotye-traits association is used as an example.

Using R as an integrated environment requires comprehensive but feasible efforts, as demonstrated 
with the success of the BioConductor project (http://www.bioconductor.org). I concur with 
previous authors but wish to draw opinions on the need of computational environment upgrade and 
on the suggestion that R is an integrated environment that statistical geneticists have longed 
for.


REFERENCES

Guo S-W, Lange K. Genetic mapping of complex traits: promises, problems, and prospects. Theor Pop 
Biol 57:1-11, 2000

Zhao JH, Tan Q. Integrated analysis of genetic data with R. Hum Genomics (in press)

Zhao JH. Mixed-effects Cox models of alcohol dependence in extended pedigrees. BMC Genet (in 
press)

Zhao JH, Tan Q. Genetic Dissection of Complex Traits in Silico: Approaches, Problems and 
Solutions. Curr Bioinformatics (under revision)

Zhao JH. Pedigree-drawing with R. Bioinformatics (under revision)

